An axiom is a well-established assumption that is used as the premise or starting
point for further reasoning or arguments. Axioms are propositions that we assume
to be true, they cannot be proven. When modeling the real world, it is up to
you to show that the axioms are actually valid. May be verified experimentally
or intuitively.

In logic an axiom is starting point for reasoning.

Logical axiom
Formulas in formal language that are universally valid, satisfied by every
assignment of values. Generally a minimal set of tautologies.

In propositional logic the primitive connectives are negation  "¬" "→" and implication.
A → (B → A) and (A → ¬B) → (C → (A → ¬B)). P → Q modus ponens P implies Q, if
we assert that P is true then Q must be true. Can prove all tautologies of
propositional logic.

Non-logical axioms

Formulas for theory specific assumptions. Natural number and integers are two
different structures, which may involve the same logical axioms and the
non-logical axioms describe what is unique about a particular structure.
Non-logical axioms are not tautologies. Some operations are commutative
but others are not.

Deductive systems

A deductive system consist of a set of logical axioms, non-logical axioms and
a set of rules of inference. A system is complete for all formulas, for any
statement that is a logical consequence of its non-logical axioms there exists
a deduction of the statement from the non-logical axions. Everything that is
true is provable, true meaning made true by the set of axioms.

Peano axioms
Simple examples of formal proofs derived from axioms.
Set of axioms for natural numbers. Popular for introducing functional languages.

1. 0 is a natural number
2. equality is reflexive: for every natural number x, x = x.
3. equality is symmetric: for all natural numbers x and y, if x = y, then y = x.
4. equality is transitive: for all natural number x, y and z, if x = y and y = z, then x = y.
5. closed under equality: for all a and b, if b is a natural number then a is also a natural number.
6. For every natural number n, S(n) is natural number.
7. For every natural number m and n, m = n iff S(m) = S(n). S is an injection
8. For every natural number n, S(n) = 0 is false. There is no natural number whose successor is 0.
9. If K is a set such that 0 is in K and for every natural number n, n being in K implies that S(n) is in K, then K contains every natural number.

Tarski's undefinability theorem
Arithmetical truth cannot be defined in arithmetic.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Axiom
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Peano_axioms
http://us.metamath.org/mpegif/mmset.html#axioms
https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/127158/in-what-sense-are-math-axioms-true
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tarski%27s_undefinability_theorem
